README.md, before:

# <img src="documentation/images/cimgen_logo.png" alt="CIMgen" width=120 />

Python tool for code generation from CIM data model for several programming languages

## Concept overview

![Overview CIMgen](documentation/images/CIMgen.svg)

## Usage example

### Generating C++ files

#### Generating C++ files on Linux (Ubuntu)

```bash
sudo apt install python
pip3 install xmltodict chevron cmake
cmake -P .
```

This will build version CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020 in the subfolder with the same name.

If you wish to build an alternative version, you can see available options in the subfolder called cgmes_schema.

They can be built using a cmake variable:

```bash
cmake -DUSE_CIM_VERSION=CGMES_2.4.15_16FEB2016 -P .
```

#### Generating C++ files in a Docker container

```bash
docker build -t cimgen -f Dockerfile .
export OUTPUT_DIR=$(pwd)/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020_cpp
export SCHEMA_DIR=$(pwd)/cgmes_schema/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020
docker run -v ${OUTPUT_DIR}:/cgmes_output -v ${SCHEMA_DIR}:/cgmes_schema cimgen
```

### Generating Python files

#### Generating Python files on Linux

```bash
$ sudo apt install python
$ pip3 install xmltodict chevron
$ export OUTPUT_DIR=$(pwd)/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020_python
$ export SCHEMA_DIR=$(pwd)/cgmes_schema/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020
$ ./build.py ${OUTPUT_DIR} ${SCHEMA_DIR} python
OUTPUT_DIR can be set to whichever absolute path you wish to create the files in.
If you wish to build an alternative version, you can see available options in the subfolder called cgmes_schema
```

#### Generating Python files in a Docker container

```bash
docker build -t cimgen -f Dockerfile .
export OUTPUT_DIR=$(pwd)/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020_python
export SCHEMA_DIR=$(pwd)/cgmes_schema/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020
docker run -v ${OUTPUT_DIR}:/cgmes_output -v ${SCHEMA_DIR}:/cgmes_schema cimgen python
```

## Publications

If you are using CIMgen for your research, please cite the following paper in
your publications:

Dinkelbach, J., Razik, L., Mirz, M., Benigni, A., Monti, A.: Template-based
generation of programming language specific code for smart grid modelling
compliant with CIM and CGMES.
J. Eng. 2023, 1–13 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1049/tje2.12208](https://doi.org/10.1049/tje2.12208)

Commit message:

uniform argument management + manage dependencies using poetry

README.md, after:

# <img src="documentation/images/cimgen_logo.png" alt="CIMgen" width=120 />

Python tool for code generation from CIM data model for several programming languages

## Concept overview

![Overview CIMgen](documentation/images/CIMgen.svg)

## Usage example

### Generating C++ files

#### Generating C++ files on Linux (Ubuntu)

```bash
sudo apt install python
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -  # install poetry
poetry install --no-root # install dependencies
poetry run cmake -P CMakeLists.txt
```

This will build version CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020 in the subfolder with the same name.

If you wish to build an alternative version, you can see available options in the subfolder called cgmes_schema.

They can be built using a cmake variable:

```bash
poetry run cmake -DUSE_CIM_VERSION=CGMES_2.4.15_16FEB2016 -P CMakeLists.txt
```

#### Generating C++ files in a Docker container

```bash
docker build -t cimgen -f Dockerfile .
export OUTPUT_DIR=$(pwd)/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020_cpp
export SCHEMA_DIR=$(pwd)/cgmes_schema/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020
docker run -v ${OUTPUT_DIR}:/cgmes_output -v ${SCHEMA_DIR}:/cgmes_schema cimgen
```

### Generating Python files

#### Generating Python files on Linux

```bash
sudo apt install python
pip3 install xmltodict chevron
export OUTPUT_DIR=$(pwd)/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020_python
export SCHEMA_DIR=$(pwd)/cgmes_schema/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020
./build.py --outdir=${OUTPUT_DIR} --schemadir=${SCHEMA_DIR} --langdir=python
```

`OUTPUT_DIR` can be set to whichever absolute path you wish to create the files
in.
If you wish to build an alternative version, you can see available options in
the subfolder called cgmes_schema

#### Generating Python files in a Docker container

```bash
docker build -t cimgen -f Dockerfile .
export OUTPUT_DIR=$(pwd)/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020_python
export SCHEMA_DIR=$(pwd)/cgmes_schema/CGMES_2.4.15_27JAN2020
docker run -v ${OUTPUT_DIR}:/cgmes_output -v ${SCHEMA_DIR}:/cgmes_schema cimgen --langdir=python
```

## Publications

If you are using CIMgen for your research, please cite the following paper in
your publications:

Dinkelbach, J., Razik, L., Mirz, M., Benigni, A., Monti, A.: Template-based
generation of programming language specific code for smart grid modelling
compliant with CIM and CGMES.
J. Eng. 2023, 1–13 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1049/tje2.12208](https://doi.org/10.1049/tje2.12208)
